docs: update roadmap after 1.14 release (#27089)
cilium-team/cilium: Documentation/community/roadmap.rst

|| :ref:`Kubernetes CNI<k8s_network_root>`         | Stable                                                   |
++-------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
|| `Load Balancing`_                               | Stable                                                   |
++-------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
|| :ref:`k8s_policy`                               | Stable                                                   |
++-------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
|| :ref:`Kube-proxy Replacement<kubeproxy-free>`   | Stable                                                   |
++-------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
|| :ref:`egress-gateway`                           | Stable                                                   |
++-------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+

> || :ref:`gsg_encryption` (IPSec and WireGuard)     | Stable                                                   |

Reviewer: There's some caveats here I think, for instance for node-to-node encryption? I'm not sure whether the level of testing really validates a stable tag yet or not cc @cilium/sig-encryption

Reviewer 2: So yeah,

- node to node encryption for WireGuard is beta
- node to node encryption for IPSec is not supported

where as regular pod to pod encryption should be stable for both. Node to node encryption is opt-in.

Author: I added a bullet in the roadmap details below to cover graduating node-to-node WireGuard to stable. I considered adding something in the table referring to the docs for details, but it seemed like that might well also apply to other features, and it would end up being too much detail for this high-level view. There is a caveat already under the table saying:

> “Stable” means that the feature is in use in production (though advanced features may still be in beta or in development).

++-------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+

> || :ref:`bandwidth-manager`                        | Stable                                                   |

Reviewer: Do we have input from users on stability of bandwidth manager? Are users enabling it? cc @cilium/sig-datapath

Reviewer 3: It's hard to say. We've had it enabled by default for a bit, disabled it because we were hitting issues, and it has been disabled by default ever since. We don't have many (any?) bug reports, but I also think we don't have many reports of people enabling it.

Author: FWIW it's not currently marked as beta in the [docs](https://docs.cilium.io/en/v1.14/network/kubernetes/bandwidth-manager/) (but that could be an oversight?)

Author: @borkmann what's your view, should this be marked as stable or beta? Edit: don't worry, we found where it was previously promoted to stable

Reviewer 4: Note: the Bandwidth Manager was publicly promoted to “stable” [in Cilium 1.12's announcement blog](https://isovalent.com/blog/post/cilium-release-112/#bm-stable).

Author: Sounds clear that we should be treating it as stable

|| :ref:`Hubble CLI<hubble_cli>`                   | Stable                                                   |
++-------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
|| :ref:`hubble_ui`                                | Stable                                                   |
++-------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
|| :ref:`Prometheus metrics<metrics>`              | Stable                                                   |
++-------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| Cilium Service Mesh                              | Stable (:ref:`Roadmap Details<rm-cilium-service-mesh>`)  |
++-------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
|| :ref:`gs_ingress`                               | Stable                                                   |
++-------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+

> || :ref:`gs_gateway_api`                           | Stable                                                   |

Author: ```suggestion
|| :ref:`gs_gateway_api`                           | Beta                                                     |
```

++-------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+

> || :ref:`gs_l7_traffic_management`                 | Stable                                                   |

Reviewer: Is this really stable? 2/3 of the [examples](https://docs.cilium.io/en/v1.14/network/servicemesh/l7-traffic-management/#examples) are using CiliumEnvoyConfig which I don't think we make any stability guarantees about, and the other example which doesn't use CEC is explicitly marked beta.

Reviewer 5: Yeah, I would have thought this should be a bit lower for now too.

Author: good catch, I meant to mark Gateway API as Beta so that was my mistake. Sounds like L7 traffic mgmt should be too, so I’ll change that as well

> || :ref:`gs_l7_traffic_management`                 | Stable                                                   |

Author: ```suggestion
|| :ref:`gs_l7_traffic_management`                 | Beta                                                     |
```

++-------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+

> || :ref:`gs_mutual_authentication`                 | Beta                                                     |

Reviewer 4: This one says `Mutual Authentication (Beta) | Beta` so “Beta” appears twice - although it probably doesn't matter.

Author: I think fixing this would mean re-sizing the table (because RST is so awesome!) and I don't think it's worth the effort

++-------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
|| :ref:`SPIFFE integration<identity_management>`  | Beta                                                     |
++-------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| `Tetragon`_ Security                             | Beta (:ref:`Roadmap Details<rm-tetragon>`)               |
+--------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+

"Stable" means that the feature is in use in production (though advanced
features may still be in beta or in development).

Release Cadence
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> We aim to make 2-3 `point releases`_ per year of Cilium and its core components

Reviewer 6: nit
```suggestion
We aim to make 2 to 3 `point releases`_ per year of Cilium and its core components
```

> We aim to make 2 to 3 `point releases`_ per year of Cilium and its core components

Reviewer 7: We are rather consistently making 2 releases per year, with patch releases every month.

Author: That's consistent with the text as written? We could document patch releases here too, but I think that would probably be more detail than needed for this roadmap page

Cilium Service Mesh 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> As Cilium Service Mesh gets wider adoption, the next steps we'd like to take in
> this area (in no particular order) are: 

Reviewer 6: Use clear, plain language
```suggestion
As Cilium Service Mesh gets wider adoption, next steps (in no particular order) include: 
```

capabilities. We released a beta at the end of 2021 and had very valuable
feedback from our user community. The next steps we'd like to take for Cilium
Service Mesh (in no particular order) are: 
As Cilium Service Mesh gets wider adoption, the next steps we'd like to take in
this area (in no particular order) are: 

* Graduating Prometheus metrics and OpenTelemetry collector to stable
* Using Kubernetes as service mesh control plane 
 
  * Simple to use sidecar-free service mesh configured using Kubernetes Services
    and Ingress with support for additional annotations

> * Graduating EnvoyConfig CRD to stable

Reviewer: Was this dropped because we abandoned making EnvoyConfig stable? Because I'm not sure we went through any process to decide that it's stable.

Reviewer 5: Yes, I think that we're better to keep EnvoyConfig as _mostly_ an implementation detail that brave folks may make use of if they're game. And then find things that people want to do with their own EnvoyConfigs and do them in Gateway API instead.

Author: I took these out because I think they're largely covered by the table above (if I correct GW API and L7 traffic management to be marked as Beta). But you're right, I should leave something here about graduating both to stable

Author: Added bullets for graduating Gateway API, L7 Traffic Management, next-gen mutual authn and SPIFFE integration

* Extended sample Grafana dashboards for L7 visibility
* SMI integration 
* SPIFFE integration

> * Gateway API Integration

Reviewer: Probably worth retaining Gateway API in some form since the spec isn't finalized yet but we're working to implement newer versions of the spec?

Reviewer 5: Agreed, I'd like to see Gateway API integration stay in next steps until it's GA.

Author: yep, added bullet for this

maintain. This is a good area to get involved if you are interested in learning
more about Cilium internals and development.

.. _rm-tetragon:

Tetragon Security
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`Tetragon`_ is a sub-project within the Cilium family. It provides security observability and runtime enforcement through the JSON events and the Tetragon
CLI for things like process execution, file access, network observability, and
privileged execution.

> Although Tetragon is still in Beta stage, it is already in
> production use with a set of adopters.

Reviewer 6: Use active voice
```suggestion
Although Tetragon is still in Beta stage, a set of adopters use it in production.
```
